[Introduction to SwipeSense [1](#section-3)](#section-3)

[Getting Started [1](#getting-started)](#getting-started)

[Navigating Your Data [2](#ap)](#ap)

[Navigation [2](#navigation)](#navigation)

[Using the Date Picker
[2](#using-the-date-picker)](#using-the-date-picker)

[Using Filters [3](#using-filters)](#using-filters)

[Viewing Your Data [4](#viewing-your-data)](#viewing-your-data)

[Dashboard Views [4](#dashboard-views)](#dashboard-views)

[Executive Dashboard [4](#executive-dashboard)](#executive-dashboard)

[Facility Dashboard [4](#facility-dashboard)](#facility-dashboard)

[Group Dashboard [5](#group-dashboard)](#group-dashboard)

[Unit Dashboard [5](#unit-dashboard)](#unit-dashboard)

[Staff Dashboard [6](#staff-dashboard)](#staff-dashboard)

[Individual Staff Page/My Report
[6](#individual-staff-pagemy-report)](#individual-staff-pagemy-report)

[Graphical Data Representations
[6](#graphical-data-representations)](#graphical-data-representations)

[System Heat Map [6](#system-heat-map)](#system-heat-map)

[Facility Heat Map [7](#facility-heat-map)](#facility-heat-map)

[Performance Over Time Graph
[7](#performance-over-time-graph)](#performance-over-time-graph)

[Bubble Plots [8](#bubble-plots)](#bubble-plots)

[Real Time Intervention Blueprints
[8](#real-time-intervention-blueprints)](#real-time-intervention-blueprints)

[Over Time Intervention Blueprints
[8](#over-time-intervention-blueprints)](#over-time-intervention-blueprints)

[Data Tables [8](#data-tables)](#data-tables)

[Navigating Tables [8](#navigating-tables)](#navigating-tables)

[Performance by Unit Type
[9](#performance-by-unit-type)](#performance-by-unit-type)

[Performance by Group Type
[9](#performance-by-group-type)](#performance-by-group-type)

[Performance Detail [9](#performance-detail)](#performance-detail)

[Hand Hygiene Stars [9](#hand-hygiene-stars)](#hand-hygiene-stars)

[Hand Hygiene Performance by Staff Table
[10](#hand-hygiene-performance-by-staff-table)](#hand-hygiene-performance-by-staff-table)

[Data Cards [10](#data-cards)](#data-cards)

[Performance Card [10](#performance-card)](#performance-card)

[Performant Opportunities
[10](#performant-opportunities)](#performant-opportunities)

[Total Opportunities [10](#total-opportunities)](#total-opportunities)

[Best Week [11](#best-week)](#best-week)

[Other Data Available
[11](#other-data-available)](#other-data-available)

[Downloading & Sharing [11](#downloading-sharing)](#downloading-sharing)

[Getting Help [12](#getting-help)](#getting-help)

[Tool Tips [12](#tool-tips)](#tool-tips)

[The SwipeSense Hub Application
[12](#the-swipesense-hub-application)](#the-swipesense-hub-application)

[Contact Support [12](#contact-support)](#contact-support)

# 

# 

# 

# 

# 

# Introduction to SwipeSense

REUSING FROM SYSTEM GUIDE

# Getting Started

REUSING FROM SYSTEM GUIDE

# Ap

# Navigating Your Data

## Navigation

After clicking on the icon for Hand Hygiene you will be redirected to
the highest level of data that your facility and partner success team
have provided permissions for. Along the top of the page, you will be
able to navigate to the hub application (*depending on permissions)* and
logout of the application.

On the left-hand menu, you will find a list of all the dashboards
available for viewing.

If you have access to multiple SwipeSense modules, you will be able to
select a different module on the bottom left corner.

*PICTURE WITH LABELS*

## Using the Date Picker

*PICTURE HIGHLIGHTING THE DATE PICKER ON A PAGE*

Apart from the Enterprise & Facility Dashboards, each page will have a
**Date Picker** beneath the dashboard banner. The **Date Picker** will
allow you to filter to any date range in which hand hygiene performance
has been recorded. This tool works the same for every page it’s present
on.

To access the **Date Picker**, click on the calendar icon and you will
be presented with all options available for making selections:

-   Choose standard filters from the drop-down menu *(Yesterday, This
    Week, Last Month, etc.)*

-   Select a specific number of days to monitor.

-   Type in the date in the designated date fields.

-   Select the dates directly from the calendar.

    -   Click the first date to select the start of your date range.

    -   Click the second date to select the end of your date range.

When you’re satisfied with your selection, use the **‘Select Dates’**
button to save it. If you’d like to close the **Date Picker** without
changing your selection, use the **‘Cancel’** button to go back with no
changes.

## Using Filters

Apart from the Enterprise & Facility Dashboards, each page will have a
**Filters Panel** next to the Date Picker & beneath the dashboard
banner. The **Filters Panel** will allow you to fine tune the data
visible in each dashboard. Apart from the **Aggregates** filter,
changing options on the **Filters Panel** will change the information
for all performance cards and graphs on the page. *(Aggregates will only
change the visualization of Performance Line Graphs)*

\**Note: Available options on the Filters Panel are based on permissions
determined by hospital leadership and SwipeSense Partner Success.*

*PICTURE WITH FILTERS & DROPDOWNS SHOWN*

You can change any filter by clicking on the arrow button in each filter
field. Doing so, will show a drop down of all available options within
each filter:

-   Aggregates: Choose to visualize line graph data in weekly, daily, or
    monthly compilations.

-   Facilities: Choose which facility, or facilities you would like to
    see data for. *(Facility selections will limit the Units and Groups
    filters to the selected facilities.)*

-   Units: Choose which unit or units you would like to see data for.
    *(Unit selections will limit the groups filter only to groups
    attached to the selected units)*

-   Groups: Choose which group or groups you would like to see data for.
    *(Group selections will limit the units filter only to units
    attached to the selected groups)*

Any filter field can be left bank if you choose. Doing so will aggregate
and present data at the lowest filter level selected.

Once you have arranged your desired filters from the Filters Panel &
chosen your desired date range from the Date Picker select the “Apply
Filters” button in bottom right of the Filters Panel to apply your
selections to the data on the dashboard page.

These filters will remain in place as you navigate to other dashboards
within the Hand Hygiene Module of the Care Application.

# Viewing Your Data

## Dashboard Views

SwipeSense offers a variety of dashboards tailored to meet the needs of
different levels of hospital staff. These dashboards encompass a
high-level executive overview that aggregates multi-facility hospital
networks as well as dashboards catering to groups, units, and even
individual team members. This multi-tiered presentation of data has been
strategically designed to empower leadership to understand the critical
areas to influence behavior change. Please proceed to see an overview of
each dashboard.

*Note: Dashboard access is customizable and access to dashboard views
are determined by hospital leadership and SwipeSense Partner Success. If
you believe you should see a specific dashboard on your page, please
reach out to your leadership team.*

### 

### Executive Dashboard

The **SwipeSense Executive Dashboard** provides a comprehensive overview
of an entire Health System’s performance over a fiscal year. The
**System Heat Map** allows a user to compare the performance of all
facilities monthly. The performance tables provide insights into the
number of hand hygiene opportunities and performance generated within
each unit or group type across all facilities. Ultimately allowing for
the observation of trends and identifying initiatives that can be
implemented across the entire Health System

PICTURE OF EXECUTIVE DASHBOARD LABELING AREAs

### Facility Dashboard

The **SwipeSense Facility Dashboard** provides a comprehensive overview
of an entire Facility’s performance over a fiscal year. The System Heat
Map allows a user to compare performance of all units monthly. The
performance tables provide insights into the number of hand hygiene
opportunities and performance generated within each unit or group type
across one facility. This enables the observation of trends and
facilitates the identification of areas to recognize top-performing
teams or delve deeper to provide behavioral coaching.

If you have Facility-Level permissions for one hospital this will be the
highest page accessible via the **Enterprise Dashboard**.

If you have Enterprise-Level permissions for a multi-hospital system,
the **Facility Dashboard** can be accessed via clicking on a specific
Facility from the **Enterprise System Heat Map.**

ADD PICTURE LABELING DASHBOARD

### Group Dashboard

The SwipeSense Groups Dashboard provides a view of performance data as
it relates to people within your hospital. With the **Groups Dashboard**
you can:

1.  View your group*(s)* total hand hygiene performance over time.

2.  Cement best practices by identifying your group*(s)* best week *(or
    day)* of hand hygiene performance in a given period.

3.  Benchmark your group*(s)* performance using the **Performance Over
    Time Graph**.

4.  Celebrate your group*(s)* **Hand Hygiene Stars**

5.  View which units your group*(s)* are contributing to with their hand
    hygiene performance.

ADD PICTURE LABELING DASHBOARD

### Unit Dashboard

**The SwipeSense Units Dashboard** provides a view of performance data
as it relates to places within your hospital. With the **Units
Dashboard** you can:

1.  View your unit*(s)* total hand hygiene performance over time.

2.  Cement best practices by identifying your unit*(s)* best week *(or
    day)* of hand hygiene performance in a given period.

3.  Benchmark your unit*(s)* performance using the **Performance Over
    Time Graph.**

4.  Celebrate your unit*(s)* **Hand Hygiene Stars.**

5.  View which groups are contributing to your unit*(s)* total hand
    hygiene performance

ADD PICTURE LABELING DASHBOARD

### Staff Dashboard

The **SwipeSense Staff Dashboard** provides a view of all individual
team members encompassed within a filter selection. With the **Staff
Dashboard** you can:

1.  View an aggregate of selected staff’s total hand hygiene performance
    over time.

2.  View the **Hand Hygiene Performance by Staff Table** to gain
    insights into the total performance of individual team members.

3.  View the **Hand Hygiene Performance by Staff Bubble Plot** to
    visualize where coaching and intervention may have the highest
    impact in your overall hand hygiene scores.

Selecting a staff member from either the **Hand Hygiene Performance by
Staff Table** or the **Hand Hygiene Performance by Staff Bubble Plot**,
will allow you to navigate to that team members individual page.

ADD PICTURE LABELING DASHBOARD

### Individual Staff Page/My Report

Each badged team member will also have a My Report page that allows
insights into individual hand hygiene performance. Appropriately
permissioned team leads will also be able to access this personalized
report that includes:

1.  The individual team members total hand hygiene performance over
    time.

2.  The **Performance Over Time Graph** that allows for comparison
    against hospital benchmarks.

3.  Information about the team member that includes:

    1.  Badge Short Code

    2.  Badge Battery Levels

    3.  Group Assignment

ADD PICTURE LABELING DASHBOARD

## Graphical Data Representations

### System Heat Map

The **System Heat Map** can be found on the **Enterprise Dashboard** and
shows the monthly performance of all facilities in a Health System over
the course of the fiscal year *(Fiscal year determined by hospital
leadership and Partner Success Team.)* The top row of the heat map shows
the hand hygiene performance for the overall Health System, while the
rows beneath show the monthly performance for all facilities encompassed
by that Health System. Hovering over a month will highlight that
facility’s performance against the other facilities within the system
during the selected month.

Clicking on a facility row on the **System Heat Map** will take you to
the **Facility Dashboard** for that hospital.

ADD PICTURE WITH LABELS

### Facility Heat Map

The **Facility Heat Map** can be found on the **Facility Dashboard** and
shows the monthly performance of all units within a single facility over
the course of the fiscal year *(Fiscal year determined by hospital
leadership and Partner Success Team.)* The top row of the heat map shows
the hand hygiene performance for the whole facility, while the rows
beneath show the monthly performance for all units encompassed by that
facility. Hovering over a month will highlight that unit’s performance
against the other units within the facility during the selected month.

If you navigated to the **Facility Dashboard** via the **System Heat
Map**, you can use the “Back to All Facilities” button in the top right
hand corner to return to the full **Executive Dashboard.**

### Performance Over Time Graph

The **Performance Over Time Graph** can be found on the **Groups
Dashboard**, the **Units Dashboard**, and **My Report/Individual Staff
Page.** The data shown in this graph can be customized using the **Date
Picker** and the **Filters Panel.**

-   The horizontal axis *(Or X-Axis)* will show time aggregates that
    were chosen via the **Filters Panel.**

-   The vertical axis *(or Y-axis)* will show total hand hygiene
    performance percentages.

    -   *Note: Y-axis auto-scales to the highest data point in the data
        set.*

-   Available trend line categories will show immediately above the
    graph. Trend line availability is determined by the filters you
    selected from the **Filters Panel.**

    -   All trend lines will be crossed out by default. Clicking on the
        trend line category will place the line on the graph.

    -   To remove the trend line, click the category a second time to
        cross out the category and remove it from the graph.

    -   *Note: The hospital baseline, hand hygiene goal, and default
        data set for the dashboard will always be available as trend
        line categories on the graph.*

ADD A PICTURE OF THE PERFORMANCE OVER TIME GRAPH

### Bubble Plots

The **Hand Hygiene Performance Bubble Plot** can be found on the Staff
Dashboard. This data visualization provides an opportunity to easily
identify high performers and team members that need coaching. The bigger
the bubble the more opportunities the team member is creating. The goal
is to turn the largest red bubbles, to the largest green bubbles and
positively influence your team’s overall performance score!

-   The horizontal axis *(or X-axis)* will show opportunity counts from
    highest *(left)* to lowest *(right).*

-   The vertical axis *(or Y-axis)* will show hand hygiene performance
    scores.

-   *Note: Graph auto-scales to highest points in the data set.*

To gather more information, hover over a bubble with your cursor to see:

-   Username

-   Total Performance Score within the date range

-   Total Opportunity Count within the date range

Click on a bubble to navigate to that specific user’s individual
dashboard page.

ADD PICTURE OF BUBBLE PLOT

### Real Time Intervention Blueprints

*WILL BE PRESENT IN VERSION 1.2*

### Over Time Intervention Blueprints

*WILL BE PRESENT IN VERSION 1.2*

## Data Tables

You will find numerous data tables spread out across the Hand Hygiene
module of the care application. Each one containing a total performance
percentage and an opportunity count for the relevant category.

### Navigating Tables

Each table utilizes the same basic tools to help navigate and filter
information easily:

-   **Column Headers** – Clicking directly on any column header will
    sort the column in ascending order, clicking a second time will sort
    the column in descending order.

-   **Magnifying Glass –** Clicking directly on the magnifying glass
    icon in the top right corner of each table will allow you to
    dynamically search for what you would like to see isolated in the
    table.

-   **Rows Per Page** – At the bottom of each table you can edit the
    table settings to fine tune the number of rows per page that you
    would like to see. You can also use the arrows to navigate through
    the pages of each table.

### Performance by Unit Type

This table is found in the **Executive Dashboard** and provides
opportunity counts and hand hygiene performance percentages for types of
units across a health system over the fiscal year. *(Fiscal year
determined by hospital leadership and Partner Success Team.)*

### Performance by Group Type

This table is found in the **Executive Dashboard** and provides
opportunity counts and hand hygiene performance percentages for types of
groups across a health system over the fiscal year. *(Fiscal year
determined by hospital leadership and Partner Success Team.)*

### Performance Detail

-   Units

    -   This table is found on the **Groups Dashboard** and provides
        opportunity counts and hand hygiene performance percentage
        relating to units that have been visited by a specific group or
        groups as dictated by the selections made from the **Date
        Picker** and **Filters Panel.**

-   Groups

    -   This table is found on the **Units Dashboard** and provides
        opportunity counts and hand hygiene performance percentage
        relating to groups that have visited by a specific unit or units
        dictated by the selections made from the **Date Picker** and
        **Filters Panel.**

### Hand Hygiene Stars

This table can be found on both the **Groups Dashboard** and the **Units
Dashboard**. It represents the top performers for the group(s) or the
top performers on the unit(s) *(depending on the dashboard).* On this
table you can see Staff Name, Total Opportunity Count and Total Hand
Hygiene Performance as dictated by the selections made from the **Date
Picker** and **Filters Panel.**

### Hand Hygiene Performance by Staff Table

This table can be found on the Staff Dashboard and shows Staff Name,
Opportunity Count, and Total Hand Hygiene Performance Percentage as
dictated by the selections made from the **Date Picker** and **Filters
Panel.**

## Data Cards

Many of our dashboards incorporate data cards designed to succinctly
deliver essential and specific information to your team. Please proceed
for a brief overview of these data cards.

### Performance Card

**Performance Cards** can be found on our **Groups**, **Units**, and
**Staff Dashboards**, as well as the **My Report/Individual Staff
Page**.

PICTURE

Each **Performance Card** highlights the total performance percentage
within the parameters selected from the **Date Picker** and **Filters
Panel.** Performance percentage is calculated by dividing the number of
Performant Opportunities by the Total Opportunities.

Below the Total performance percentage, each **Performance Card** also
highlights the percentage change measured within the date range you have
selected, compared to the same range immediately preceding the selected
dates.

*(Ex. If one week of time has been selected, you will see the +/- %
change from the previous week.)*

### Performant Opportunities

**Performant Opportunities Cards** can be found on our **Groups**,
**Units**, and **Staff Dashboards**, as well as the **My
Report/Individual Staff Page**.

PICTURE

A **Performant Opportunities Card** shows the total number of times that
a hand hygiene event was expected *and* performed within the parameters
selected from the **Date Picker** and the **Filters Panel**.

### Total Opportunities

**Total Opportunities Cards** can be found on our **Groups**, **Units**,
and **Staff Dashboards**, as well as the **My Report/Individual Staff
Page**.

PICTURE

A **Total Opportunities Card** shows the total number of times that an
entrance into a patient area was measured and a hand hygiene event was
expected within the parameters selected from the **Date Picker** and
**Filters Panel**.

*\*For more information on how we measure hand hygiene opportunities and
hand hygiene events check out SwipeSense System User Guide!*

### Best Week

**Best Week Cards** can be found on our **Groups & Units Dashboards.**

PICTURE

A Best Week Card provides the total performance percentage for your best
week within the parameters selected from the **Date Picker** and
**Filters Panel**. If you have chosen to aggregate data daily or monthly
this could also be a **Best Day Card** or a **Best Month Card**.

## Other Data Available 

In addition to the data described above, you can also see user badge
information from the **My Report/Individual Staff Page**.

Our **Groups Dashboard** and **Units Dashboard** provide links in the
top right-hand corner that will redirect you to the **SwipeSense Hub
Application** for any hardware information. *(As permissions allow)*

# Downloading & Sharing

Each dashboard contains purple buttons in the top right-hand corner that
will allow you to download the data you are viewing as either an excel
or a pdf.

These downloads will match the parameters you have selected from the
Date Picker and Filters Panel. To download them:

1.  Click the button to choose your download option.

2.  You will be prompted to name the file and choose a location on your
    device to save.

3.  Download will begin immediately pending your local network
    connection.

# Getting Help

## Tool Tips

Looking for additional help? Our Care Application contains various
helpers right on the page indicated by \[PICTURE OF TOOL TIPS ICON\] the
tool tips icon.

## The SwipeSense Hub Application

You can also find more information on our SwipeSense Hub Application,
intended for more administrative tasks.

## Contact Support

Still need help? We’d love to hear from you! On the bottom right of
every page is a button labeled “Contact Support”. Or you can email us at
<support@swipesense.com>. Either option will create a support ticket for
our team, please be as detailed as possible in your request.
